Add term: Debugging (#552)
cncf/glossary: content/en/debugging.md

---
title: Debugging

> status: Feedback Appreciated

Reviewer: I changed it to feedback appreciated as it still needs to be reviewed by another approver

category: concept
---

## What it is

> Debugging is the process or activity of finding and resolving bugs (or errors) from computer programs, software, or systems to get the desired output. A bug is a defect or a problem leading to incorrect or unexpected output.

Reviewer 2: I would replace output with result.

## Problem it addresses

> Developers write source code and create a binary file with external libraries to run it in production. If a bug is introduced during that process, the code will likely not function as desired (undefined behavior) when executed. To identify the source of the problem, developers have to review the code line-by-line. Catching errors is quite hard without context, i.e., variables, data, location in memory, etc.

Reviewer: Just realized one more thing, sorry. Here we determined that the problem is that we don't have any context to debug an app manually.

Presumably, debugging tools solve that by providing that needed context but we don't mention it below...or at least it's not clear how that relates to things like variables, data, location in memory, etc. 

How it helps should directly address the problem. It's probably already there but implied. We should spell it out.

> Developers write source code and create a binary file with external libraries to run it in production. If a bug is introduced during that process, the code will likely not function as desired (undefined behavior) when executed. To identify the source of the problem, developers have to review the code line-by-line. Catching errors is quite hard without context, i.e., variables, data, location in memory, etc.

Reviewer 2: Maybe I am too picky here, but while devs write source code, they don't necessarily create binary files. Sure, apps. run a binary at a very low level, but I think this fact does not add any value to explaining the term. Same goes  for "with external libs". 

Also it is not only about running in production. Debugging is relevant for apps running on any environment, right? 

"To identify the source of the problem, developers have to review the code line-by-line" That is not the whole truth. While it might be true, it reads as if this is the only possibility devs have. We can go through logs as well in order to find what the app is doing, without having to lock at code at all.

> Developers write source code and create a binary file with external libraries to run it in production. If a bug is introduced during that process, the code will likely not function as desired (undefined behavior) when executed. To identify the source of the problem, developers have to review the code line-by-line. Catching errors is quite hard without context, i.e., variables, data, location in memory, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Software development is a complex activity which makes it nearly impossible to write code without introducing bugs. Those bugs lead to code that will likely not function as desired (undefined behavior) when executed. Depending on how critical an application is, bugs can have a huge negative impact, financially or even for human lives. Usually application code has to go through different stages or environments where it gets tested. The more critical an application is, the more accurate the testing has to be. 
```

Author: I like it, good one @iamNoah1

> Developers will build the source code, create a binary file including external libraries to run it into production. They will execute it and search for errors that affect the program, which will likely not function as desired (undefined behavior). To identify the source of the problem, developers have to review the code line-by-line. Catching errors is quite hard without context, i.e., variables, data, location in memory, etc.

Author: yes, you got perfectly the point :D I was missing some words, this is the reason that I submitted to get some ideas from you :D thank you very much

## How it helps

> Debugging tools use various debugging techniques to help developers identify bugs. How these tools are used depends on the development stage. Analysis of logs, traces, and metrics, for instance, are used for debugging directly in production without requiring program execution to stop. Developers use interactive debugging on the source code during the programming phase. By running the program and connecting an external debugger tool, developers control the flow of the program and instruct it to pause the execution at specific points where they suspect the error may happen; they usually get this information by reading the logs. Once they have identified the source of the failure, they can correct the code and create a bug fix or patch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When bugs appear anywhere, engineers will have to debug (which means finding and fixing) in order to decrease undesired behavior for production systems. Debugging is no easy task as engineers have to track down the source of the undesired behavior.  It not only requires knowledge about the code itself but also knowledge about the execution context at runtime. This is were different debugging techniques and tools come in handy. Analysis of logs, traces, and metrics, for instance, are used for debugging directly in production. In contrast to that, developers can use interactive the source code during the programming phase. Interactive debugging lets developers step through the code at runtime while they can analyse the related execution context. Once they have identified the source of the failure, they can correct the code and create a bug fix or patch.
```

> Debugging techniques provide developers with different ways of finding bugs using special debugging tools. The usage of this tool depends on the stages of development. Analysis of logs, traces, and metrics is used for debugging directly in production without stopping the program's execution. During the programming phase, developers can use interactive debugging now on the source code. By running the program and connecting an external debugger tool, developers can control the flow of the program and instruct it to pause the execution at specific points where they suspect the error may happen; they usually get this information by reading the logs. They can understand the reason for the failure, correct the source code and create a bug fix or patch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debugging tools use various debugging techniques to help developers identify bugs. How these tools are used depends on the development stage. Analysis of logs, traces, and metrics, for instance, are used for debugging directly in production without requiring program execution to stop. Developers use interactive debugging on the source code during the programming phase. By running the program and connecting an external debugger tool, developers control the flow of the program and instruct it to pause the execution at specific points where they suspect the error may happen; they usually get this information by reading the logs. Once they have identified the source of the failure, they can correct the code and create a bug fix or patch.
```

Reviewer: Just edits

> When bugs appear, engineers have to debug (e.g., finding and fixing) the app to decrease undesired behavior for production systems. Debugging is no easy task as engineers have to track down the source of the undesired behavior. It requires knowledge about the code itself and the execution context at runtime. This is where different debugging techniques and tools come in handy. Analysis of logs, traces, and metrics, for instance, are used for debugging directly in production. In contrast, developers can use interactive debugging to step through the code at runtime while analyzing the related execution context. Once they have identified the source of the failure, they correct the code and create a bug fix or patch.

Reviewer 2: could be my fault, as I made a little edit because some suggestions were merged resulting in a strange sentence. I 
Agree with Catherine's suggestion :)

> When bugs appear, engineers have to debug (e.g., finding and fixing) the app to decrease undesired behavior for production systems. Debugging is no easy task as engineers have to track down the source of the undesired behavior. It requires knowledge about the code itself and the execution context at runtime. This is where different debugging techniques and tools come in handy. Analysis of logs, traces, and metrics, for instance, are used for debugging directly in production. In contrast, developers can use interactive debugging to step through the code at runtime while analyzing the related execution context. Once they have identified the source of the failure, they correct the code and create a bug fix or patch.

Author: fixed :D thx for the suggestion
